Thymeleaf security (#1104)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-02-25-thymeleaf-security.md

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Securing your application when using Thymeleaf templates with Spring Webflux"

Reviewer: This title is a little long. I'll try to think of a better one. We also might want to add `spring` and/or `webflux` to the filename.

Reviewer 2: maybe "Thymeleaf Templates with Spring WebFlux to Secure Your Apps" or similar?

Reviewer: Works for me!

Author: Updated

author: jimena-garbarino
by: contractor

> communities: [security,java]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communities: [java]
```
It seems that most of our tutorials could be security and X, so I think it's best to just do X.

description: ""
tags: [thymeleaf, security, method-security, oidc, webflux, spring, spring-boot, spring-security, csrf, authorization]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

Thymeleaf library has been around at least for 10 years and it is still actively maintained as of today. It is designed to allow stronger collaboration between design and developer teams for some use cases, as Thymeleaf templates look like HTML and can be displayed in the browser as static prototypes.
In this post you will learn how to create a simple Spring Boot WebFlux application with Thymeleaf and Okta OIDC authentication, addressing the security concerns of preventing CSRF when submitting forms, and protecting functionality based on the user authorities and authentication status.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

**This tutorial was created with the following frameworks and tools**:

- [HTTPie 3.0.2](https://httpie.io/)
- [Java OpenJDK 11](https://jdk.java.net/java-se-ri/11)
- [Okta CLI 0.9.0](https://cli.okta.com)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

> # What is Thymeleaf?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is Thymeleaf?
```

Make sure you use h2s and h3s. It helps to look at the rendered tables of contents in the [preview](https://deploy-preview-1104--okta-blog.netlify.app/blog/2022/02/25/thymeleaf-security).

Thymeleaf is an open-source server-side Java template engine for standalone and web applications, that was created by Daniel Fernández. The templates look like HTML and can be integrated with Spring MVC and Spring Security among other popular development frameworks. Although documentation about integration with Spring WebFlux is hard to find, it is currently supported and the Thymeleaf starter dependency performs the [auto-configuration](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/reference/html/web-reactive.html#webflux-view-thymeleaf) of the template engine, template resolver and reactive view resolver.

> Among its features, Thymeleaf allows to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among its features, Thymeleaf allows you to:
```

> - Work with fragments: only a part of a template can be rendered, which can be useful for updating part of a page from responses in AJAX calls. It also provides a componentization tool, as the fragments can be included in multiple templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Work with fragments: only a part of a template will be rendered. This can be useful for updating part of a page from responses in AJAX calls. It also provides a componentization tool, as the fragments can be included in multiple templates.
```

- Handle forms with model objects containing their fields
- Render variables and externalized text messages through its [Standard Expression Syntax](https://www.thymeleaf.org/doc/tutorials/3.0/usingthymeleaf.html#standard-expression-syntax)
- Perform iterations and conditional evaluations

> {% img blog/thymeleaf-security/thymeleaf-logo-white.png alt:"Thymeleaf Logo" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: I'd put this graphic right after What is Thymeleaf? and float it to the right. 

```
{% img blog/thymeleaf-security/thymeleaf-logo-white.png alt:"Thymeleaf Logo" width:"300" %}{: .pull-right}
```

Here's what this looks like:

<img width="953" alt="Screen Shot 2022-03-10 at 13 26 44" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/157748844-56519513-5d71-4c9f-93c0-c544ea0cc280.png">

Author: Updated

> # Create a Spring Boot Webflux application with Thymeleaf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a Spring Boot WebFlux application with Thymeleaf
```

Create a simple monolithic Spring Boot reactive application, that will use Thymeleaf for page templates.

> You can use [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/), from its web UI, or download the starter app with the following HTTPie line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/), from its web UI, or download the starter app with the following HTTPie command:
```

```shell
https -d start.spring.io/starter.zip bootVersion==2.6.4 \
  baseDir==thymeleaf-security \
  groupId==com.okta.developer.thymeleaf-security \
  artifactId==thymeleaf-security \
  name==thymeleaf-security \
  packageName==com.okta.developer.demo \
  javaVersion==11 \
  dependencies==webflux,okta,thymeleaf
```

> Extract the Maven project, and some additional dependencies. `thymeleaf-extras-springsecurity5` dependency is required to include security conditionals in the templates, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extract the Maven project and some additional dependencies. The `thymeleaf-extras-springsecurity5` dependency is required to include security conditionals in the templates, and
```

`spring-security-test` has mock login features that will help when writing controller tests.

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.thymeleaf.extras</groupId>
  <artifactId>thymeleaf-extras-springsecurity5</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.4.RELEASE</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.springframework.security</groupId>
  <artifactId>spring-security-test</artifactId>
  <scope>test</scope>

> </dependency>

Reviewer: 4 spaces for XML but it probably doesn't matter as long as you're consistent.

Author: Updated

```

## Add Okta authentication

{% include setup/cli.md type="web" framework="Okta Spring Boot Starter" %}

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The Okta configuration is now in `application.properties`. Rename it to `application.yml` and add the following additional properties:

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          okta:
            user-name-attribute: email

okta:
  oauth2:
    issuer: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
    client-id: {clientId}
    client-secret: {clientSecret}
    scopes:
      - email

>       - openid

Reviewer: Are you sure this works? We use `scope: openid,profile,email` in JHipster. https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/blob/main/generators/server/templates/src/main/resources/config/application.yml.ejs#L302

Author: Only `openid` is a required scope for an OpenID Connect request.
https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes
It worked for me. Will add a comment in the post.
From the docs: "`profile` OPTIONAL. This scope value requests access to the End-User's default profile Claims, which are: name, family_name, given_name, middle_name, nickname, preferred_username, profile, picture, website, gender, birthdate, zoneinfo, locale, and updated_at."

Author: Added the comment in the post

```

## Add some Thymeleaf templates

> Create a `src/main/resources/templates` folder for the templates you are going to create. Create the `home.html` template with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `src/main/resources/templates` folder for the templates you are going to create. Create a `home.html` template with the following content:
```

      </div>

      <div th:if="${#authorization.expression('isAuthenticated()')}" class="text fw-light fs-6 lh-1">
        <p>Welcome home, <span th:text="${#authentication.principal.name}">Joe Coder</span>!</p>
        <p>You have successfully authenticated against your Okta org, and have been redirected back to this application.</p>
      </div>

      <form th:unless="${#authorization.expression('isAuthenticated()')}" method="get" th:action="@{/oauth2/authorization/okta}">
        <button id="login-button" class="btn btn-primary" type="submit">Sign In</button>
      </form>

    </div>
  </body>
  <!--/*/ <th:block th:include="footer :: footer"/> /*/-->
</html>
```

In the template above, the commented out `<th:block/>` allows to include a header and footer fragments defined in `header.html` and `footer.html`. They contain the Bootstrap dependencies for the templates styling. There is also a menu fragment that will replace the `<div th:replace ...` element.
Conditionals  `th:if` and `th:unless` are used to evaluate the authentication status. If the visitor is not authenticated, the **Sign In** button will be displayed. Otherwise, a greeting by username will be displayed.

> Add the `head.html` template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `head.html` template:
```

```html
<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">
<head th:fragment="head">
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    <link href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.1.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet" integrity="sha384-1BmE4kWBq78iYhFldvKuhfTAU6auU8tT94WrHftjDbrCEXSU1oBoqyl2QvZ6jIW3" crossorigin="anonymous">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap-icons@1.8.1/font/bootstrap-icons.css">
</head>
<body>
    <p>Nothing to see here, move along.</p>
</body>
</html>
```

> `footer.html` template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `footer.html` template:
```

```html
<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">
<head>
</head>
<body>
<p>Nothing to see here, move along.</p>
</body>
<footer th:fragment="footer">
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.1.3/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js" integrity="sha384-ka7Sk0Gln4gmtz2MlQnikT1wXgYsOg+OMhuP+IlRH9sENBO0LRn5q+8nbTov4+1p" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
</footer>
</html>
```

> `menu.html` template for the menu fragment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, add a `menu.html` template for the menu fragment:
```

import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.reactive.EnableWebFluxSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.config.web.server.ServerHttpSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.web.server.SecurityWebFilterChain;
import org.springframework.security.web.server.authentication.logout.RedirectServerLogoutSuccessHandler;
import org.springframework.security.web.server.authentication.logout.ServerLogoutSuccessHandler;

import java.net.URI;

@EnableWebFluxSecurity
@EnableReactiveMethodSecurity
public class SecurityConfiguration {

    @Bean
    public ServerLogoutSuccessHandler logoutSuccessHandler(){
        RedirectServerLogoutSuccessHandler handler = new RedirectServerLogoutSuccessHandler();
        handler.setLogoutSuccessUrl(URI.create("/"));
        return handler;
    }

    @Bean
    public SecurityWebFilterChain securityWebFilterChain(ServerHttpSecurity http) {
        http
                .authorizeExchange().pathMatchers("/").permitAll().and().anonymous()
                .and().authorizeExchange().anyExchange().authenticated()
                .and().oauth2Client()
                .and().oauth2Login()

>                 .and().logout().logoutSuccessHandler(logoutSuccessHandler());

Reviewer: This indent looks a little aggressive. Are you using IntelliJ's default formatting?

Author: The auto-indent does that, it has 4 spaces for Java

Author: Updated in the post

        return http.build();
    }
}
```

In the configuration above, access to the home `/` page is allowed to all with anonymous authentication, which is required for the authentication expression in the Thymeleaf `home.html` template to work. An authentication object must be in the security context.

> ## Run the application

Reviewer: You might want to add a section about hot-reloading Thymeleaf templates. https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/02/25/java-i18n-internationalization-localization#hot-reloading-thymeleaf-templates-and-resource-bundles-in-spring-boot-2-1

This is pretty handy because you can edit templates and not restart the app.

Author: I added a brief comment when showing the `application.yml`

Run the application with Maven:

```shell
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

> Go to http://localhost:8080 and you should see the home page and a **Sign In** button. Click the button and sign in with your Okta credentials. After signing in, you should be redirected back to the home page and see the content for authenticated users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to `http://localhost:8080` and you should see the home page and a **Sign In** button. Click the button and sign in with your Okta credentials. After signing in, you should be redirected back to the home page and see the content for authenticated users.
```

{% img blog/thymeleaf-security/home-authenticated.png alt:"Home Page Authenticated" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line breaks around the image above.

Why do you scratch out your name in this image? It's shown in another image below.

Author: Because it shows my toptal email, and it is not an okta email, I will blur it in the other image.

## Protect content areas with authorization

> Let's add a `userProfile.html` template that will display the claims contained in the access token returned from Okta, and also the authorities that spring security derives from the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's add a `userProfile.html` template that will display the claims contained in the access token returned from Okta, as well as the authorities that Spring Security derives from the token.
```
capitalize product name

```html
<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">
<head>
    <title>User Details</title>
    <!--/*/ <th:block th:include="head :: head"/> /*/-->
</head>
<body id="samples">
  <div th:replace="menu :: menu"></div>

    <div id="content" class="container">

      <div>
        <h2>My Profile</h2>
        <p>Hello, <span th:text="${#authentication.principal.attributes['name']}">Joe Coder</span>. Below is the information that was read with your <a href="https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/oidc.html#get-user-information">Access Token</a>.
        </p>
        <p>This route is protected with the annotation <code>@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('SCOPE_profile')")</code>, which will ensure that this page cannot be accessed until you have authenticated, and have the scope <code>profile</code>.</p>
      </div>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

      <table class="table table-striped">
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>Claim</th>
            <th>Value</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <tr th:each="item : ${details}">
                <td th:text="${item.key}">Key</td>
                <td th:id="${'claim-' + item.key}" th:text="${item.value}">Value</td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>

      <table class="table table-striped">
        <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Spring Security Authorities</th>
        </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
        <tr th:each="scope : ${#authentication.authorities}">
          <td><code th:text="${scope}">Authority</code></td>
        </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>

    </div>
  </body>
<!--/*/ <th:block th:include="footer :: footer"/> /*/-->
</html>
```

Add the route mapping in the `HomeController`:

```java
@GetMapping("/profile")
@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('SCOPE_profile')")
public Mono<Rendering> userDetails(OAuth2AuthenticationToken authentication) {
    return Mono.just(Rendering.view("userProfile").modelAttribute("details", authentication.getPrincipal().getAttributes())
            .build());
}
```

> The annotation `@PreAuthorize` allows to define an authorization predicate that can be written in SpEL (Spring Expression Language), and will be checked before the method execution. Only users with the authority `SCOPE_PROFILE` can request a display of the `userProfile` page. This is server-side protection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@PreAuthorize` annotation allows you to define an authorization predicate that can be written in SpEL (Spring Expression Language). It will be checked before the method execution. Only users with the authority `SCOPE_PROFILE` can request a display of the `userProfile` page. This is server-side protection.
```
allows needs an object (in this case "you")

For the client-side, add a link in the `home.html` template to access the `userProfile` page, below the "You successfully ..." paragraph. The link will also only display for users that have the `SCOPE_profile` authority.

```html
<p>You have successfully authenticated against your Okta org, and have been redirected back to this application.</p>
<p th:if="${#lists.contains(authorities, 'SCOPE_profile')}">Visit the <a th:href="@{/profile}">My Profile</a> page in this application to view the information retrieved with your OAuth Access Token.</p>
```

> **IMPORTANT NOTE:** The authorization conditional is implemented in this way, because authorization-oriented expressions like `${#authorization.expression('hasRole(''SCOPE_profile'')')}` are restricted in WebFlux applications due to a lack of support in the reactive side of Spring Security (as of Spring Security 5.6). Only a minimal set of security expressions is allowed: [isAuthenticated(), isFullyAuthenticated(), isAnonymous(), isRememberMe()].

Reviewer: Wrap the expressions in backticks.

Author: Done

> Run the application again. After signing in, you still won't see the new link, and if you go to http://localhost:8080/profile, you will get HTTP ERROR 403, which means forbidden. This is because in `application.yml`, as part of the Okta configuration, only `email` and `openid` scopes are requested, and `profile` scope is not returned in the access token claims. Add the missing scope in the yml, restart, and the `userProfile` view should be displayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the application again. After signing in, you still won't see the new link, and if you go to `http://localhost:8080/profile`, you will get HTTP ERROR 403, which means forbidden. This is because in `application.yml`, as part of the Okta configuration, only `email` and `openid` scopes are requested, and `profile` scope is not returned in the access token claims. Add the missing scope in the `application.yml`, restart, and the `userProfile` view should now be visible:
```

{% img blog/thymeleaf-security/profile-page.png alt:"Profile Page" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> {% img blog/thymeleaf-security/spring-security-authorities.png alt:"Spring Security derived authorities" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: I can see why you might want to remove your email from being visible. However, I think it's OK to show the issuer. Also, are you using an OIE org? If not, you might want to create a new org at https://developer.okta.org/signup or with the Okta CLI and `okta register`.

Author: My Okta console version is "Version 2022.03.0 C", so I don't think I am using an OIE. Will try the `okta register` then.

Author: I tried `okta register` and my console version is the same. The issuer is now visible in the screenshot.

> As you can see Spring Security assigns the groups contained in the claim, as well as the requested scopes as authorities. Scopes are prefixed with `SCOPE_`. `ROLE_ADMIN` and `ROLE_USER` groups are created by default when you create a client application with Okta CLI, and your user is assigned to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, Spring Security assigns the groups contained in the claim as well as the requested scopes as authorities. Scopes are prefixed with `SCOPE_`. `ROLE_ADMIN`, and `ROLE_USER` groups are created by default when you create a client application with Okta CLI, and your user is assigned to them.
```
moving the commas to aid readability (I hope)

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

# Prevent CSRF when submitting forms

CSRF stands for Cross-Site Request Forgery, and is a form of cyber-attack through the submission of a form from a malicious site to a known site, exploiting the browser behavior by which the malicious request is sent along with the known site cookies, passing as an authenticated request.

> Spring Security CSRF protection is enabled by default for both Servlet and WebFlux applications. The predominant protection mechanism is the [Synchronizer Token Pattern](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/features/exploits/csrf.html#csrf-protection-stp), which ensures each HTTP request must contain a secure random generated value, the CSRF token. The token must be required in a part of the request that is not populated automatically by the browser. For example, an HTTP parameter or header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spring Security CSRF protection is enabled by default for both Servlet and WebFlux applications. The predominant protection mechanism is the [Synchronizer Token Pattern](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/features/exploits/csrf.html#csrf-protection-stp), which ensures each HTTP request must contain a secure random generated value, the CSRF token. The token must be required in a part of the request that is not populated automatically by the browser. For example, you can use an HTTP parameter or header.
```
needs a verb.

                <strong>A.</strong> A server-side Java template engine
            </label>
        </div>
        <div class="col-md-12 form-check">
            <input class="form-check-input" type="radio" th:field="*{answer}" value="B" id="check-1-2"/>
            <label class="form-check-label" for="check-1-2">
                <strong>B.</strong> A markup language
            </label>
        </div>
        <div class="col-md-12 form-check">
            <input class="form-check-input" type="radio" th:field="*{answer}" value="B" id="check-1-3"/>
            <label class="form-check-label" for="check-1-3">
                <strong>C.</strong> A web framework
            </label>
        </div>
        <div class="col-md-12 mt-4 mb-4">
            <p>Your CSRF token is:<span th:text="${_csrf.token}"/></p>
        </div>
        <div class="col-md-12">
            <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Submit</button>
        </div>
    </form>
</div>
</body>
<!--/*/ <th:block th:include="footer :: footer"/> /*/-->
</html>
```

The CSRF token is available as a request attribute and will be displayed in the `quiz.html` template for learning purposes.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```html
<html xmlns:th="http://www.thymeleaf.org">
<head>
    <title>Thymeleaf Quiz Submission</title>
    <!--/*/ <th:block th:include="head :: head"/> /*/-->
</head>
<body id="samples">
<div th:replace="menu :: menu"></div>
<div class="container" id="content">
    <div class="text-center">
        <i class="bi-balloon-heart-fill" style="font-size: 6rem; color: green;" th:if=${quiz.answer=='A'}></i>
        <i class="bi-x-circle-fill" style="font-size: 6rem; color: red;" th:unless=${quiz.answer=='A'}></i>
        <div class="panel mt-4 text-center">
            <div class="panel-body">
                <h4>Your selected answer is <strong>
                    <span th:text="${quiz.answer}"></span>
                </strong></h4>
                <p th:if=${quiz.answer=='A'}>Good Job!</p>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="panel mt-4 text-center" th:unless=${quiz.answer=='A'}>
            <div class="panel-body">
                <h4>The right answer is <strong>A:</strong></h4>
                <h4>A server-side Java template engine</h4>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
</body>
<!--/*/ <th:block th:include="footer :: footer"/> /*/-->
</html>

> ```

Reviewer: It'd be nice to have a link back to the quiz in this template? It could say something like `Try again?`

Author: Added the link

Add a `QuizSubmission` data class, for holding the quiz answer:

```java
package com.okta.developer.demo;

public class QuizSubmission {

    private String answer;

    public String getAnswer() {
        return answer;
    }

    public void setAnswer(String answer) {
        this.answer = answer;
    }
}
```

> Add the `QuizController` for displaying the quiz and processing the form submission:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `QuizController` for displaying the quiz and processing the form submission:
```

    @PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('SCOPE_quiz')")
    public Mono<Rendering> showQuiz() {
        return Mono.just(Rendering.view("quiz").modelAttribute("quiz", new QuizSubmission()).build());
    }

    @PostMapping(path = "/quiz", consumes = {MediaType.APPLICATION_FORM_URLENCODED_VALUE})
    @PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('SCOPE_quiz')")
    public Mono<Rendering> saveQuiz(QuizSubmission quizSubmission) {
        return Mono.just(Rendering.view("result").modelAttribute("quiz", quizSubmission).build());
    }
}
```

In the new controller and templates, the quiz is authorized for users that have `SCOPE_quiz` authority. Add a protected link to the `home.html` template, below the profile link:

```html
<p>You have successfully authenticated against your Okta org, and have been redirected back to this application.</p>
<p th:if="${#lists.contains(authorities, 'SCOPE_profile')}">Visit the <a th:href="@{/profile}">My Profile</a> page in this application to view the information retrieved with your OAuth Access Token.</p>
<p th:if="${#lists.contains(authorities, 'SCOPE_quiz')}">Visit the <a th:href="@{/quiz}">Thymeleaf Quiz</a> to test Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protection.</p>
```

> Before running the application again, let's verify CSRF protection with a controller test. Add `QuizControllerTest` to `src/test/java` under the package `com.okta.developer.demo`:

Reviewer: Love it!

@WebFluxTest
public class QuizControllerTest {

    @Autowired
    private WebTestClient client;

    @Test
    void testPostQuiz_noCSRFToken() throws Exception {
        QuizSubmission quizSubmission = new QuizSubmission();
        this.client.mutateWith(mockOidcLogin())
                .post().uri("/quiz")
                .exchange()
                .expectStatus().isForbidden()
                .expectBody().returnResult()
                .toString().contains("An expected CSRF token cannot be found");
    }

    @Test
    void testPostQuiz() throws Exception {
        this.client.mutateWith(csrf()).mutateWith(mockOidcLogin())
                .post().uri("/quiz")
                .contentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_FORM_URLENCODED)
                .exchange().expectStatus().isOk();
    }

    @Test
    void testGetQuiz_noAuth() throws Exception {
        this.client.get().uri("/quiz").exchange().expectStatus().is3xxRedirection();
    }

    @Test
    void testGetQuiz() throws Exception {
        this.client.mutateWith(mockOidcLogin())
                .get().uri("/quiz").exchange().expectStatus().isOk();
    }
}
```

> In the test class above, the first test `testPostQuiz_noCSRFToken()` verifies the quiz cannot be submitted without the CSRF token, even if the user did sign in. In the second test `testPostQuiz()`, the CSRF token is added to the mock request with `mutateWith(csrf())`, so the expected response status is HTTP 200 OK. The third test `testGetQuiz_noAuth` verifies a request of the quiz will be redirected (to Okta sign-in form) if the user is not authenticated. And the last test `testGetQuiz()` verifies the quiz can be accessed if the user has been authenticated with an OIDC login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the test class above, the first test `testPostQuiz_noCSRFToken()` verifies the quiz cannot be submitted without the CSRF token, even if the user did sign in. In the second test `testPostQuiz()`, the CSRF token is added to the mock request with `mutateWith(csrf())`, so the expected response status is HTTP 200 OK. The third test `testGetQuiz_noAuth()` verifies a request of the quiz will be redirected (to the Okta sign-in form) if the user is not authenticated. And the last test `testGetQuiz()` verifies the quiz can be accessed if the user has been authenticated with an OIDC login.
```

> Before running the application, as `quiz` is not a standard scope or a scope defined in Okta, you have to define it for the default authorization server. Sign in to the Okta dashboard, and in the left menu, go to **Security > API**, the choose the **default** authorization server. In the **Scopes** tab, click **Add Scope**. Set the scope name as `quiz` and add a description, leave all the remaining fields with default values and click on **Create**. Now the `quiz` scope can be required during the OIDC login.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As `quiz` is not a standard scope or a scope defined in Okta, you have to define it for the default authorization server before running the application. Sign in to the Okta dashboard, and in the left menu, go to **Security > API**, the choose the **default** authorization server. In the **Scopes** tab, click **Add Scope**. Set the scope name as `quiz` and add a description, leave all the remaining fields with default values and click on **Create**. Now the `quiz` scope can be required during the OIDC login.
```
readability

> {% img blog/thymeleaf-security/add-scope.png alt:"Add Scope Page" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: You might want to crop this image and make it bigger. The font is kinda small.

Author: Cropped.

> Run the application without adding the `quiz` scope to the `application.yml` file, sign in and you should not see the quiz link yet. If you make a GET request with the browser to http://localhost:8080/quiz, the response will be 403 Forbidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the application without adding the `quiz` scope to the `application.yml` file, sign in, and you should not see the quiz link yet. If you make a GET request with the browser to `http://localhost:8080/quiz`, the response will be 403 Forbidden.
```

Now add `quiz` to the list of scopes in the Okta configuration in `application.yml`. The final configuration should look like this:

```yml
spring:
  security:
    oauth2:
      client:
        provider:
          okta:
            user-name-attribute: email

okta:
  oauth2:
    issuer: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
    client-id: {clientId}
    client-secret: {clientSecret}
    scopes:
      - email
      - openid
      - profile
      - quiz
```

Run the application again and you should see the quiz link "Visit the **Thymeleaf Quiz** to test Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protection". Click the link and the quiz will be displayed:

> {% img blog/thymeleaf-security/quiz-form.png alt:"Thymeleaf Quiz Form" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: The font seems a little small in the screenshot. It looks great in the developer console! Maybe bump the fonts a bit in the browser and retake the screenshot?

Author: Retook the screenshot

The CSRF token is displayed, but if you turn on developer tools, you can also find it as a hidden attribute `<input type="hidden" name="_csrf" value="...">` that Spring Security adds to the form.

You can try the POST request with HTTPie, and you will again verify the POST request is rejected without the CSRF token.

 ```shell

>  thymeleaf-security http POST http://localhost:8080/    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http POST http://localhost:8080/ 

```

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Content-Type: text/plain
Expires: 0
Pragma: no-cache
Referrer-Policy: no-referrer
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1 ; mode=block
content-length: 38

An expected CSRF token cannot be found
```

The interesting fact here is that it seems CSRF protection takes precedence over authentication in the Spring Security filter chain.

> # Learn more about Spring Boot, Web Security and Okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Learn more about Spring Boot, Web Security, and Okta
```

> I hope you enjoyed this brief introduction to Thymeleaf and learned how to secure content and implement authorization on the server-side using Spring Security. You could also experience how fast and easy is to integrate OIDC Authentication using Oka. To learn more about Spring Boot Security and OIDC, check out the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope you enjoyed this brief introduction to Thymeleaf and learned how to secure content and implement authorization on the server-side using Spring Security. You could also experience how fast and easy is to integrate OIDC Authentication using Okta. To learn more about Spring Boot Security and OIDC, check out the following links:
```

- [Learn How to Build a Single-Page App with Vue and Spring Boot](/blog/2021/10/04/spring-boot-spa)
- [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)
- [Spring Native in Action with the Okta Spring Boot Starter](/blog/2021/09/16/spring-native-okta-starter)

> You can find the complete source code for this tutorial on [Github](https://github.com/indiepopart/thymeleaf-security).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the complete source code for this tutorial [on GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-thymeleaf-security-example).
```
